Azure storage
-------------

Blob ----> object storage

File ----- _ Files shares for cloud and on-prem deployments

Queues ----- > Will discuss in detail in messaging section

Azure Blob storage
------------------

1) Object storage Blob -----> (Binary large objects)

2) Great for files, videos, documents, large files etc.

3) Up to 4.777 TB per file, 190 TB per preview

4) Extremely cost effective

5) Maasively scalable

6) Great availability options

7) Extremely easy to use

8) usually used in conjection with SQL, MYSQL Database

Security
--------

1) IP firewall rules
2)Service End points
3)private end points
4) Shared access signature
5)Access keys and Azure Active Directory Authentication
6) Secure Communication
7) Data encrypted by default


Azure storage rdundant
-------------------------

1)LRS ----> Locally redundant storage
2)ZRS ------> Zone redundant storage
3)GRS -------> Geo redundant storage 

Locally redundant storage
-------------------------
LRS replicates your storage account three times within a single data centre in the primary region. LRS provides at least 99.99999999%

LRS protects your data against server rack and drive failure, LRs may be lost or uncoverabls if entire data centre fails

If your application stores data that can be easily restricted to replicate data only within a country

Zone-redundant storage
------------------------
Zone redundant storage replicates your storage account across three Azure availability zones in the primary region.

Each availability zones is a separated physicall location with independent power. ZRS offers durability for storage resource of at least 99.99999999999% over a given year.

With ZRS, your data is still accessible for both read and write operations even if a zone becomes unavilable

Microsoft recommends using zrs in the primary region for scenarios that require high availability.


GRS(Geo redundant storage)
---------------------------
Geo- redundant storage copies your data three times with a single physical location in the primary region using LRS, it then copies your data to physical location in a secondary region that is hundreds of miles away from the primary region

GRS offers durability for storage resources of at least 99.999999999999%

A write operation is first committed to the primary location and replicated using LRS
 
GEO_Redundant storage combines high availability of your data and provided using the availability zones

Things to consider when using Azure Storage
-------------------------------------------:


As you think about your configuration plan for Azure Storage, consider these prominent features.

Consider durability and availability. Azure Storage is durable and highly available. Redundancy ensures your data is safe during transient hardware failures. You replicate data across datacenters or geographical regions for protection from local catastrophe or natural disaster. Data that's replicated remains highly available during an unexpected outage.

Consider secure access. All data written to Azure Storage is encrypted by the service. Azure Storage provides you with fine-grained control over who has access to your data.

Consider scalability. Azure Storage is designed to be massively scalable to meet the data storage and performance needs of modern applications.

Consider manageability. Microsoft Azure handles hardware maintenance, updates, and critical issues for you.

Consider data accessibility. Data in Azure Storage is accessible from anywhere in the world over HTTP or HTTPS. Microsoft provides SDKs for Azure Storage in various languages. You can use .NET, Java, Node.js, Python, PHP, Ruby, Go, and the REST API. Azure Storage supports scripting in Azure PowerShell or the Azure CLI. The Azure portal and Azure Storage Explorer offer easy visual solutions for working with your data.

About Blob Storage
Blob Storage is designed for:

1) Serving images or documents directly to a browser.
2) Storing files for distributed access.
3) Streaming video and audio.
4) Writing to log files.
5) Storing data for backup and restore, disaster recovery, and archiving.
6) Storing data for analysis by an on-premises or Azure-hosted service.
i


